# Day Seven - Overview of CI/CD

---

In this section we will have a brief look at the concept of CI/CD in preparation for creating our own CI/CD solution for the `first-app` application.

---

CI/CD stands for _Continuous Integration_ (CI) and _Continuous Delivery / Deployment_ (CD).  It is composed of a number of techniques and technologies that work together to increase the speed and quality of development iterations.

One of the earliest tools that was used for CI/CD was [Cruise Control](http://cruisecontrol.sourceforge.net).  However, there is now a large number of tools available that can be used for CI/CD.  The general pattern of tool usage is to have an automation / job server that runs pipelines.  With the pipelines then making use of other tools at various stages of their execution.

Some general definitions for CI/CD are below.

**Continuous Integration**

_Continuous Integration_ is a practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository several times a day.  With every every check-in resulting in an automated build.

Some of the benefits of this approach are.

* Constant check on code health, i.e. can it be built.
* Automated code quality checks.
* Automated code coverage checks.
* Automated testing.
* Vulnerability scanning.

A typical CI workflow (stages) that might be implemented is shown below.

* Developer develops code.
* Developer tests code locally then commits it.
* Automated pipeline starts (triggered by a webhook in the source code repository).
    * Code is checked out.
    * Code is built (and dependancies are retrieved).
    * Built code is tested.
        * Unit.
        * Functional.
        * Security.
        * Coverage.
        * Vulnerability.
        * Integration.
    * Built code is packaged and uploaded to an artefact repository (with an associated version number).
    * Additional vulnerability scans are performed on the uploaded artefact.

Of course, these stages could be anything you want.  It really depends on your particular situation as to what makes the most sense.


**Continuous Delivery** 

_Continuous Delivery_ is the capability to do automated deployments into non-production environments.  This means that the entire deployment process must be scripted.  The artefacts that are deployed are those that were built and delivered to an artefact repository in the CI phase.  Once the application is deployed then a range of tests can be executed to confirm the functioning of the application.  These tests should also be scripted.

**Continuous Deployment**  

_Continuous Deployment_ extends _Continuous Delivery_ into production environments.  The exact same scripts and processes that have been validated in the _Continuous Delivery_ phase should also be used in the _Continuous Deployment_ phase.  Generally, some predetermined criteria must be met before deploying into production.  This might be some automated test or a human check.


More information about CI/CD can be found in this Thoughtworks [article](https://www.thoughtworks.com/continuous-integration).


What we have done in this section is provide a brief description of the concept of CI/CD.


# Next

In the next section we will install _Jenkins_ into our cluster.

[Next](07-03.md)
