# Day Two - Helm for Package Management

---

In this section we will explore using _Helm_ for _Kubernetes_ package management.

---

In previous sections we have explored _Kubernetes_ manifests to define resources.  We also noted that it is generally best practice to have just one manifest file per resource.  As you can imagine this quickly gets out of hand when describing anything but a trivial application.  That is why it is necessary to have a package manager to collect together sets of related manifests.

[_Helm_](https://helm.sh) is just such a package manager.  _Helm_ packages together related _kubernetes_ manifests into what it calls a _Chart_.  The _Chart_ can then be deployed by the _Helm_ client.  And once deployed the _Chart_ can be queried and upgraded.  _Helm_ also uses templating to modify the _Kubernetes_ manifests at the time of deployment.

_Helm_ _Charts_ can stored in either a filesystem or within a _Helm_ repository.  _Helm_ comes pre-installed with an official `stable` repository that has many _Charts_ written by the community.  Numerous application types are described by these _Charts_.  And there is also an official `incubator` repository that has _Charts_ that have not yet made it into `stable`.  Additional repositories can also be added with ease.

[Kubeapps Hub](https://hub.kubeapps.com/charts?q=incubator) is a great place to search for _Charts_ that are in both the `stable` and `incubator` respositories.  The source for these _Charts_ can be found [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts).

We downloaded _Helm_ in section [01-02](../01-getting-started-with-kubernetes/01-02.md).  Now we need to install it by initialising the server side component, called `tiller`, inside our _Minikube_ cluster.

```console
helm init
```
As well as deploying `tiller`, a local `~/.helm` directory has been created.

We can check that `tiller` has been installed with the following command.

```console
kubectl -n kube-system get pod -l app=helm
```

Note, that we used a label selector with our `kubectl` command so that we could refine the list of `Pods` shown to display just the `tiller` _Pod_.

So, let's check that we can talk to `tiller`.

```console
helm version
```

And now let's check out the installed repositories.

```console
# Show the installed repositories
helm repo list

# Search for a Jenkins Chart
helm repo search
```

We're now going to revist our `first-app` but this time in the form of a _Helm Chart_.  So lets' take a look.

```console
first-app/
├── Chart.yaml
├── templates
│   ├── NOTES.txt
│   ├── _helpers.tpl
│   ├── deployment.yaml
│   └── service.yaml
└── values.yaml
```

So let's deploy our Chart.

```console
helm upgrade --install first-app --namespace default charts/first-app/
```

**Notes**

* This deployment is dependent on the _Docker_ image that was built in [_Day One - Deploying an Application_](../01-getting-started-with-kubernetes/01-05.md).  If you have rebuilt your cluster since then please also rebuild the `first-app` Docker image.
* If you get the error `Error: UPGRADE FAILED: "first-app" has no deployed releases` then it may be because _Helm_ has previously failed to deploy the application.  To clean up, before trying again, use the command `helm delete --purge first-app`.


And lets look at it.

```console
helm ls
```

We'll install a more complex application in the next section.

# Next

Let's go ahead and install an application from the _Helm_ `stable` repository.

[Next](02-06.md)