# Day Two - Kubernetes Manifests

---

In this section we will explore _Kubernetes_ manifests.

---


A _Kubernetes_ manifest is a file, either in `yaml` or `json` format, that describes one or more _Kubernetes_ resources.  Generally,  it is best practice to describe just one resource per manifest file.  However, you will often encounter manifest files that define multiple resources.

When we deployed our first application, in section [01-05](../01-getting-started-with-kubernetes/01-05.md), we had a quick look at _Kubernetes_ manifests for `Deployment` and `Service` resources.

As a recap here are the manifests again.

`deployment.yaml`

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1 
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: first-app
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: first-app
  replicas: 2
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: first-app
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: first-app
        image: first-app:v1
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
```

`service.yaml`

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: first-app
spec:
  selector:
    app: first-app
  type: NodePort
  ports:
  - protocol: TCP
    port: 80
    targetPort: 80
```

What we can see from both these files is that they each contain fields that are similar. They both have `apiVersion`, `kind`, `metadata` and `spec` fields.

The `apiVersion` field contains both the API group and the version of the API group.  Some common API groups are.

```console
v1
apps/v1
batch/v1
rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
```

Note, that `v1` is just a version and does not define a group.  This is called the _core_ or _legacy_ group as it was the first one within _Kubernetes_.  It has some very important resources within it, such as `Service`, `Node`, `NameSpace`, etc.

More information about the API groups and versions can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/api-overview/).  And information about _Alpha_, _Beta_ and _Stable_ versions of the group can be found [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/api_changes.md#alpha-beta-and-stable-versions).

If you want to see what API groups and versions your _Kubernetes_ cluster supports you can use the following command.

```console
kubectl api-versions
```

And you can find the resources within the each of the groups in the [API reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.11/).

The `kind` field defines the resource kind that the manifest file is describing.  With some common examples being.

```console
ConfigMap
Secret
Ingress
Job
```

The `metadata` field is composed of a number of additional fields.  These being a required `name` field and optional `namespace`, `labels` and `annotations` fields.  If the don't specify the `namespace` field then the current _NameSpace_ will be used.

An example of a `metadata` section for an `Ingress` resource is below.

```console
...
metadata:
  name: jenkins
  namespace: jobs
  labels:
    app: jenkins
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    kubernetes.io/tls-acme: "true"
...
```

The `labels` field contains name / value pairs that can be used to identify and select the resource.

The `annotations` field contains name / value pairs that allow a resource to be annotated with additional metadata that is useful for other systems.  In the previous example the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx` annotation lets an _Nginx Ingress Controller_ know that it should configure itself for this `Ingress` resource.  _Ingress Controllers_ are detailed in a later section.

Once a resource is published into the _Kubernetes_ API server the `metadata` field is extended with additional fields that describe the running resource.  Using the previous `Ingress` resource as an example we see it has an additional fields for `resourceVersion`, `selfLink`, `generation`, `creationTimestamp` and `uid`.

```console
metadata:
  name: jenkins
  namespace: jobs
  labels:
    app: jenkins
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    kubernetes.io/tls-acme: "true"
  creationTimestamp: 2018-05-01T03:21:05Z
  generation: 5
  resourceVersion: "16373082"
  selfLink: /apis/extensions/v1beta1/namespaces/jobs/ingresses/jenkins
  uid: aefffb02-4cee-11e8-a1d0-0a2a44e92eac
```

Finally, the `spec` field contains the specification for the resource.  You can find details of how to specify a resource in the [API reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.11/).


# Next

In the next section we will explore how to configure the `kubectl` command to be able to connect to a _Kubernetes_ cluster.

[Next](02-04.md)