# Day Two - Kubectl Config

---

In this section we will explore the `kubectl` configuration file.

---

The _kubeconfig_ configuration file for `kubectl` is generally stored at the `~/.kube/config` filesystem location. 

When we created our _Minikube_ cluster a _kubeconfig_ file was created for us automatically.  If you already had a _kubeconfig_ file then the current one would have been extended by _Minikube_.

The _kubeconfig_ for _Minikube_ looks as follows:

```console
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    certificate-authority: /Users/desdrury/.minikube/ca.crt
    server: https://192.168.99.100:8443
  name: minikube
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: minikube
    namespace: default
    user: minikube
  name: minikube
current-context: minikube
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: minikube
  user:
    client-certificate: /Users/desdrury/.minikube/client.crt
    client-key: /Users/desdrury/.minikube/client.key
```

It has a few key sections.  

Under the `clusters` section, the network location for the _Kubernetes_ API servers is defined.  This also includes the location for the Root Certificate Authority (CA) that signed the API servers TLS certificate.  

Under the `user` section, the details of the user that will communicate with the API server is defined.  More detail about this can be found in _Day Four - Security and Access Control_.

Under the `contexts` section, a `cluster` and a `user` are mapped together.

And, the `current-context` field defines which `context` `kubectl` should use.

More details about the _kubeconfig_ file can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/).

You can use the `kubectl` command to see your _kubconfig_ file.

```console
kubectl config view
```

And, you can also create and modify the contents of your _kubeconfig_ file using `kubectl`.  The following example shows how to create a new `context` pointing to the `kube-system` namespace and then make it the default `context`.

```console
kubectl config set-context system --cluster=minikube --user=minikube --namespace=kube-system
kubectl config use-context system
```

From now on, whenever you use `kubectl` it will work with resources in the `kube-system` namespace.

To switch back to the `default` namespace use the following command.

```console
kubectl config use-context minikube
```

More details about the `kubectl config` commands can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#config).

# Next

In the next section we will look at _Kubernetes_ package mangement using _Helm_.

[Next](02-05.md)