# Day Two - Deploying a Complex Application

---

In this section we will use Helm to deploy a complex application.

---


As described previously, there are numerous _Helm Charts_ available that describe many different types of workload.  For our first complex application deployment we will use a _Chart_ from the `stable` repository that installs [_Mediawiki_](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki).  This _Chart_ also includes [_MariaDB_](https://mariadb.com) for the database persistence layer.  The source for the _Chart_ can be found [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/9a666b060fa0676570b245c14559bf899e099125/stable/mediawiki).

So let's install the _Chart_ and give it the name `mediawiki`.

```console
helm install --name mediawiki stable/mediawiki
```

A lot of text is displayed, within which are the details of how to get the password for the `user` user account that we will use to login to _Mediawiki_.  The password is stored in a _Kubernetes_ _Secret_ resource.

```console
echo Password: $(kubectl get secret --namespace default mediawiki-mediawiki -o jsonpath="{.data.mediawiki-password}" | base64 --decode)
```

To watch the _Pods_ in a namespace you can use the `-w` flag.  This allows you to see the _Pods_ for both _Mediawiki_ and _MariaDB_ as they transition through the states of `ContainerCreating` to `Running`.

```console
kubectl get pod -w
```

Soon after the _Pods_ are in a running state you will be able to access the web UI.  Run the following command to get the URLs on _Minikube_ that _Mediawiki_ is available on.

```console
minikube service --url -n default mediawiki-mediawiki
```

There will be two URLs shown.  Try the first one.  If it does not work, try the second one.  You will then be able to enter the password you retrieved from the _Secret_ by clicking on the `Log in` link in the top right of the page header.


# Next

It's time for some homework.

[Next](02-07.md)