# Day One - Creating a Cluster with Minikube

---

Now that we have the pre-requisites installed we will proceed to create our first _Kubernetes_ cluster using _Minikube_.

---


The Git repo for _Minikube_ can be found [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube).  It provides some great documentation.  With the releases available [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases).

We've already installed the _Minikube_ binary in the [previous](01-02.md) section so now we will setup our first cluster.

The first thing we want to do is see what versions of _Kubernetes_ are available.

```console
minikube get-k8s-versions
```

You can create a cluster with just `minikube start` but we want to customise the configuration a bit.  So let's have a look at the possible options.

```console
minikube start -h
```

For our first cluster we want to use Kubernetes version `v1.10.0` and give it 2 cpus with 4GB memory.  Note that by default `kubeadm` will be used to bootstrap the cluster.  `kubeadm` is described in detail in [_Day Three - Building a Complex Cluster_](../03-building-a-complex-cluster/03-01.md) where it is used to build a multi-node cluster using Vagrant.

```console
minikube start --cpus 2 --memory 4096 --kubernetes-version v1.10.0 --insecure-registry "10.0.0.0/24"
```

**Notes**

* Sometimes the default `kubeadm` bootstrapper does not work.  If this is the case then delete the cluster using `minikube delete` and then add the `-b localkube` flag to the end of the above command.
* The `--insecure-registry` flag is used so that you can work with the _Docker Registry_ Add-On, which is described later.

The first time a cluster is created it will take a bit of time as the ISO for the VM and the Docker containers for the _Kubernetes_ control plane are downloaded.  These items will be cached in `~/.minikube` so any future clusters will be created faster (if they are the same _Kubernetes_ version).


_Minikube_ also has the ability to use profiles with the default profile being called `minikube`.  This gives us the ability to create more than one cluster on our workstation and then switch between them.  Below is an example of creating a new cluster using a profile called `v1.9.4` and using `localkube` as the bootstrapper.

```console
minikube start --cpus 2 --memory 2048 --kubernetes-version v1.9.4 -p v1.9.4 -b localkube
```

We can then switch between the clusters as per below.

```console
minikube profile v1.9.4
minikube status
minikube profile minikube
minikube status
```

Once our cluster is created we want to check on its status.

```console
minikube status
```

Although having a _Kubernetes_ cluster is great, it's not entirely useful yet.  _Minikube_ provides a set of Add-Ons for some of the more common needs in a _Kubernetes_ cluster.  

Lets see what Add-Ons are available.

```console
minikube addons list
```

As you can see, some of the Add-Ons are enabled by default.  We want to add a few more.

```console
minikube addons enable ingress
minikube addons enable registry
minikube addons enable heapster
minikube addons enable dashboard
```

After a while the Docker containers for the Add-Ons should be running.  We can then access the _Kubernetes Dashboard_.

```console
minikube addons open dashboard
```

or.

```console
minikube dashboard
```

We can also see what services are available in the cluster.

```console
minikube service list
```

And the services give us yet another way to access the dashboard.

```console
minikube service kubernetes-dashboard -n kube-system
```

One of the Add-Ons we added provides some basic cluster metrics.

```console
minikube addons open heapster
```

If we want to see the _Minikube_ logs we can also do that.

```console
minikube logs
```

Another great feature of _Minikube_ is that it can be used as our local _Docker_ daemon.

```console
eval `minikube docker-env`
docker ps
```

And if you need additional tools to debug things on the cluster you can use the [CoreOS Toolbox](https://github.com/coreos/toolbox).

```console
minikube ssh toolbox
```


# Next

Next up we will explore our cluster.

[Next](01-04.md)