# Day Five - `PVs` and `PVCs`

---

In this section we will describe how Kubernetes uses _PersistentVolumes_ (_PVs_) and _PersistentVolumeClaims_ (_PVCs_) to allocate persistent storage into _Pods_.

---


The _PersistentVolume_ resource represents a storage volume that can be used by _Kubernetes_. _PersistentVolumes_ are a subset of the available [_Volumes_](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/) that _Kubernetes_ can use.  Resources such as a _ConfigMap_, as we saw earlier in the course, are also a type of _Volume_ that can be mounted into a _Pod_.  However, _PersistentVolumes_ generally represent storage that is backed by a cloud or storage cluster.  The _Kubernetes_ website has comprehensive information about how [_PersistentVolumes_](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) are managed.  

There are many different types of storage volume that can be used by Kubernetes, with some examples below.

* GCEPersistentDisk
* AWSElasticBlockStore
* AzureFile
* AzureDisk
* FlexVolume
* NFS
* RBD (Ceph Block Device)
* Glusterfs
* Etc

Initially, Kubernetes required that storage volumes were manually provisoned by an operator.  A so called _static_ provisioning.  However, it is now more common to use _dynamic_ provisioning.  Where the storage volume is created dynamically based on a request for storage made through a _PersistentVolumeClaim_ (_PVC_).  This _dynamic_ provisioning is enabled by the use of a _StorageClass_, which discussed in more detail later.

A _PersistentVolumeClaim_ (_PVC_) defines the required characteristics of some storage that is needed by a _Pod_.  Below is an example of a _PVC_.

```yaml
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: myclaim
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 8Gi
  storageClassName: rook-ceph-block
```

In this example _PVC_ we can see that a request is made for storage that has an access mode of `ReadWriteOnce`.  The available access modes can be seen in the following table.

| Mode                | Description                         |
|:--------------------|:------------------------------------|
| RWO - ReadWriteOnce | The volume can be mounted as read-write by a single node. |
| ROX - ReadOnlyMany  | The volume can be mounted read-only by many nodes. |
| RWX - ReadWriteMany | The volume can be mounted as read-write by many nodes. |

In the `storageClassName` field, we can see that we are reqesting the storage be provisioned by a _StorageClass_ with a name of `rook-ceph-block`.

And, finally, we see that we want a storage volume that is 8GB in size.

The chosen _StorageClass_ is responsible for provisioning the storage and then creating a _PersistentVolume_ to represent it.  Finally, the _PersistentVolume_ is bound to the _PersistentVolumeClaim_.  

We can see an example of a _PersistentVolume_ below.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: pv0003
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 8Gi
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Recycle
  storageClassName: slow
  mountOptions:
    - hard
    - nfsvers=4.1
  nfs:
    path: /tmp
    server: 172.17.0.2
```

This particular _PersistentVolume_ represents an NFS storage volume.

A _PersistentVolume_ is mounted into a _Pod_ by the usual mechanism by which a volume is mounted into a _Pod_.  As we can see in the following example.

```yaml
kind: Pod
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: myfrontend
      image: dockerfile/nginx
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: "/var/www/html"
        name: mypd
  volumes:
    - name: mypd
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: myclaim
```

Something to be aware of is that a _PVC_ is a _NameSpace_ scoped resource.  Whereas a _PV_ is defined at the cluster scope.

An example of a _StorageClass_ that allows for dynamic provisioning of _Glusterfs_ storage volumes can be seen below.

```yaml
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: gluster-vol-default
provisioner: kubernetes.io/glusterfs
parameters:
  resturl: "http://192.168.10.100:8080"
  restuser: ""
  secretNamespace: ""
  secretName: ""
allowVolumeExpansion: true
```

What we have done in this section is provide an overview of how _Kubernetes_ uses _PersistentVolume_ and _PersistentVolumeClaim_ resources to represent storage volumes that can be mapped into a _Pod_.  We also discussed how _StorageClasses_ are used to enable the dynamic provisioning of _PersistentVolumes_.


# Next

In the next section we will install a _Ceph_ based storage cluster into our _Kubernetes_ cluster.

[Next](05-03.md)