# Day Three - Install a Multi-Node Cluster

---

In this section we will install a multi-node _Kubernetes_ cluster using `kubeadm`.

---

## Overview

`kubeadm` is a tool that bootstraps a _Kubernetes_ cluster using best practice.  It is used for cluster lifecycle functions such as create, upgrade and tear down.  `kubeadm` will not provision machines or the other elements needed by machines, such as networking, load balancers, etc.  As such `kubeadm` is often used as part of a larger provisioning capability.

There is extensive [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/independent/create-cluster-kubeadm/) on the _Kubernetes_ website describing how to use `kubeadm` to setup a cluster.  However, we are going to make our lives easier by using an open source project that does both the machine provisioning (using Vagrant and VirtualBox) and then runs `kubeadm` to create the cluster.

The project we are going to use is called _k8s-vagrant-multi-node_ and can be found [here](https://github.com/galexrt/k8s-vagrant-multi-node).

So the first thing we need to do is install _Vagrant_.


## Vagrant

You can download a _Vagrant_ installer by going to the _Vagrant_ [website](https://www.vagrantup.com) and clicking on the _Download_ button.  Just follow the instructions to install it for your OS.


## Create a Cluster

First, we need to clone the _GitHub_ repo for _k8s-vagrant-multi-node_.

```console
git clone https://github.com/galexrt/k8s-vagrant-multi-node.git
```

By default a 1 x master (with 2 x CPU, 2 x GB) and a 2 x node (with 1 x CPU, 1 x GB) cluster is created.  This is not ideal for our purposes as we will add many workloads over the remainder of this course.  We want 3 x nodes with 2 x CPU and 3 x GB each.  So we will change the defaults.  However, if your machine is not powerful enough then you can get away with 3 x nodes with 1 x CPU and 2 x GB each.  Just be aware that you will likely have to remove some workloads as we go through the course.

So let's go ahead and create our cluster.

```console
# Ideal cluster size
NODE_MEMORY_SIZE_GB=3 NODE_CPUS=2 NODE_COUNT=3 make up -j4

# Functional cluster size
NODE_MEMORY_SIZE_GB=2 NODE_CPUS=1 NODE_COUNT=3 make up -j4
```

**Notes**

* Creating the cluster will cause a lot of data to be pulled down from the Internet.  As such it will take some time.
* If you see network timeouts then it may be worth reducing the number of VMs built concurrently from 4 to 2 by changing the argument to `make up` to be `-j2`.


Once the cluster has been built you can use the following commands.

```console
# Get the Vagrant status for each of the nodes (including the masters).
NODE_COUNT=3 make status

# Get the Vagrant status for just the nodes.
NODE_COUNT=3 make status-nodes

# SSH in to node1
VAGRANT_VAGRANTFILE=Vagrantfile_nodes NODE=1 vagrant ssh node1
```

To start and the stop the cluster you use the following commands.

```console
# Stop
NODE_COUNT=3 make stop

# Start
NODE_COUNT=3 make start-master
NODE_COUNT=3 make start-nodes
```

To clean up the cluster do the following.

```console
NODE_COUNT=3 make clean
```


What we have done in this section is create a single master, 3 x worker node _Kubernetes_ cluster.  From now on we will use this cluster for the remaining sections of the course.


# Next

In the next section we will do a little exploration of the cluster.

[Next](03-03.md)
