# Day Four - Probes and Self Healing

---

In this section we will learn about _Kubernetes_ probes and how they are used to implement self healing of running workloads within the cluster.

---

There are two types of probe that _Kubernetes_ implements.  They are called _liveness_ and _readiness_ probes.

The _liveness_ probe is used to detect if a container has become unresponsive and is therefore needing to be restarted.

The _readiness_ probe is used to detect if a container is ready to start accepting traffic.  Once all containers within a _Pod_ are ready then the _Pod_ also becomes ready and can start receiving traffic.  The _Service_ uses this readiness check to decide if it will route traffic to a _Pod_.

More details about _liveness_ and _readiness_ probes can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/).

Within the document linked above there is a great example of a _liveness_ probe under the heading _"Define a liveness command"_.

An example definition of a _liveness_ probe, taken from the above document, can be seen below.

```yaml
...
    livenessProbe:
      exec:
        command:
        - cat
        - /tmp/healthy
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
      periodSeconds: 5
...
```

The above _liveness_ probe uses the `exec` action.  There are also actions for `httpGet` and `tcpSocket`.

The `exec` action runs a command within a container.  If the command returns a non-zero return code then the container is marked as failed.  If the `exec` action is defined within a _liveness_ probe then the container will be restarted.  Although some additional fields on the action might mean that it needs to fail a number of times before being restarted.  If the `exec` action is defined within a _readiness_ probe then no more traffic will be routed to the _Pod_.

The `httpGet` action is used to make a HTTP GET request to a port within the container.  If the response code from the HTTP GET request is not between 200 and 399 then the container is marked as failed.  There are a number of additional fields within the action that can customise how this HTTP GET request is made.

The `tcpSocket` action is used to make a connection to a TCP socket within the container.  

In the previously [linked](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/) document there is a section with the heading _"Configure Probes"_ that describes the additional fields that can be used with the actions.

Even more detail about probles can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#container-probes).


What we have done in this section is learn about _liveness_ and _readiness_ probes.  And the three types of action that can be used to detect a failure.  The actions being `exec`, `httpGet` and `tcpSocket`.


# Next

In the next section we will install a monitoring solution using _Prometheus_.

[Next](04-03.md)
